CeramicStudio/web-playground#29: Quickstart Upgrade (#110)
ceramicnetwork/docs: docs/build/quick-start.md

# Quickstart

> Learn the basics by setting up and interacting with the [Ceramic CLI](./cli/installation.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn the basics by setting up and interacting with the [Ceramic Javascript Client](./javascript/installation.md)
```

!!! warning ""
    **Want an even faster way to try Ceramic? Visit the [Playground Demo App](https://playground.ceramic.dev){:target="_blank"} to test the full stack of Ceramic Components in the browser.

## **1. Install the Client**

Visit the [Ceramic Client](./javascript/installation.md) page for instructions on how to quickly install the Client.

## **2. Create a stream**

> Creating streams is dependent on the StreamType of the record. More details can be found in our [StreamTypes Overview](../streamtypes/overview.md). A basic sample can be found below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating streams is dependent on the StreamType of the record. More details can be found in our [StreamTypes Overview](../streamtypes/overview.md). A basic sample using the [TileDocument StreamType](../streamtypes/tile-document/overview.md) can be found below.
```

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    import { TileDocument } from '@ceramicnetwork/stream-tile'

    const doc = await TileDocument.create(ceramic, content, metadata, opts)

    const streamId = doc.id.toString()
    ```

## **3. Query a stream**
Use the `loadStream()` function to query the current [state](../learn/glossary.md#state) of a stream. You will need to provide it's *StreamID*

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    import CeramicClient from '@ceramicnetwork/http-client'

>     const ceramic = new CeramicClient("https://gateway-clay.ceramic.network")

Reviewer: Here we show how to set up the client but above for the "create a stream" example we do not.  Whichever we do we should be consistent.

>     const streamId = "kjzl6cwe1jw147ww5d8pswh1hjh686mut8v1br10dar8l9a3n1wf8z38l0bg8qa"

Reviewer: We're inconsistent throughout this page on when we use concrete examples with real values, like we do here, and when we use placeholder variables, like in the "create a stream" example above where we use `content`, `metadata`, and `opts` without showing what they actually would look like.  Again, whatever we do we should be consistent.

Author: Honestly, I just missed this section. Will update & make it consistent :)

    const stream = await ceramic.loadStream(streamId)
    ```

## **4. Update a stream**
Use the `update`  command to update a stream. your [DID](../learn/glossary.md#dids) must be in the [controller](../learn/glossary.md#controllers) of the stream in order to update it. 

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    const streamId = "kjzl6cwe1jw147ww5d8pswh1hjh686mut8v1br10dar8l9a3n1wf8z38l0bg8qa"
    const doc = await TileDocument.load(ceramic, streamId, opts)
    
    await doc.update(newContent, newMeta, opts)
    ```
<!-- API Reference here -->

In the following example we update a TileDocuments' content while also giving it a tag.

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    const streamId = "kjzl6cwe1jw147ww5d8pswh1hjh686mut8v1br10dar8l9a3n1wf8z38l0bg8qa"
    const doc = await TileDocument.load(ceramic, streamId)

    await doc.update({foo: 'baz'}, {tags: ['baz']})
    ```
<!-- API Reference here -->

> ## **5. Create a schema**

Reviewer: I wonder if we should even include this schema stuff in the quick start, or just leave it in the TileDocument specific docs.  Doesn't seem as relevant as the basic CRUD ops for a quick start guide

Author: My argument for including it is just to streamline the flow to the TileDocument docs. It's never a bad thing to have more links to the docs in my eyes.

Author: Ignore this, I thought there was somewhere else in the docs that had an API Reference. I was wrong so this isn't going to stay.
